docs/docfx/articles/distributed-tracing.md, before:


# Distributed tracing

As an ASP.NET Core component, YARP can easily integrate into different tracing systems the same as any other web application.
See detailed guides for setting up your application with:
- [OpenTelemetry] or
- [Application Insights]

.NET 6.0 has built-in configurable support for distributed tracing that YARP takes advantage of to enable such scenarios out-of-the-box.

## .NET 5.0 and older

Before 6.0, `SocketsHttpHandler` could not be used with distributed tracing.
When running on .NET 3.1 or 5.0, YARP will copy tracing headers as-is, not accounting for any changes that may have occurred to the trace within the application.

To get YARP to actively participate, you must use a workaround to manually insert the correct headers.

The recommended workaround is to:
- Include a [custom `IForwarderHttpClientFactory`][DiagnosticsHandlerFactory] in your project and
- Register it in the DI container
    ```c#
    #if !NET6_0_OR_GREATER
    services.AddSingleton<IForwarderHttpClientFactory, DiagnosticsHandlerFactory>();
    #endif
    ```
The workaround mimics the behavior of the internal `DiagnosticsHandler` class used by `HttpClient`. As such, it automatically works with instrumentation packages from OpenTelemetry or Application Insights.

[OpenTelemetry]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet/blob/main/docs/trace/getting-started/README.md
[Application Insights]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/asp-net-core
[DiagnosticsHandlerFactory]: https://github.com/microsoft/reverse-proxy/blob/main/samples/ReverseProxy.Code.Sample/DiagnosticsHandlerFactory.cs

Commit message:

Point users of custom distributed tracing mechanisms at DistributedContextPropagator (#1573)
* Point users of custom distributed tracing mechanisms at DistributedContextPropagator

* Add a note on how to achieve pass-through behavior

docs/docfx/articles/distributed-tracing.md, after:


# Distributed tracing

As an ASP.NET Core component, YARP can easily integrate into different tracing systems the same as any other web application.
See detailed guides for setting up your application with:
- [OpenTelemetry] or
- [Application Insights]

.NET 6.0 has built-in configurable support for distributed tracing that YARP takes advantage of to enable such scenarios out-of-the-box.

## Using custom tracing headers

When using a propagation mechanism that is not built into .NET (e.g. [B3 propagation]), you should implement a custom [`DistributedContextPropagator`] for that scheme.

YARP will remove any header in [`DistributedContextPropagator.Fields`] so that the propagator may re-add them to the request during the `Inject` call.

## Pass-through proxy

If you do not wish the proxy to actively participate in the trace, and wish to keep all the tracing headers as-is, you may do so by setting `SocketsHttpHandler.ActivityHeadersPropagator` to `null`.

```c#
services.AddReverseProxy()
    .ConfigureHttpClient((context, handler) => handler.ActivityHeadersPropagator = null);
```

## .NET 5.0 and older

Before 6.0, `SocketsHttpHandler` could not be used with distributed tracing.
When running on .NET 3.1 or 5.0, YARP will copy tracing headers as-is, not accounting for any changes that may have occurred to the trace within the application.

To get YARP to actively participate, you must use a workaround to manually insert the correct headers.

The recommended workaround is to:
- Include a [custom `IForwarderHttpClientFactory`][DiagnosticsHandlerFactory] in your project and
- Register it in the DI container
    ```c#
    #if !NET6_0_OR_GREATER
    services.AddSingleton<IForwarderHttpClientFactory, DiagnosticsHandlerFactory>();
    #endif
    ```
The workaround mimics the behavior of the internal `DiagnosticsHandler` class used by `HttpClient`. As such, it automatically works with instrumentation packages from OpenTelemetry or Application Insights.

[OpenTelemetry]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-dotnet/blob/main/docs/trace/getting-started/README.md
[Application Insights]: https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/asp-net-core
[B3 propagation]: https://github.com/openzipkin/b3-propagation
[`DistributedContextPropagator`]: https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.distributedcontextpropagator
[`DistributedContextPropagator.Fields`]: https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.diagnostics.distributedcontextpropagator.fields
[DiagnosticsHandlerFactory]: https://github.com/microsoft/reverse-proxy/blob/main/samples/ReverseProxy.Code.Sample/DiagnosticsHandlerFactory.cs
